


Team name: M&M Peanut
Team Memebers :#1 Naomi O' Reilly, naomi, 05389623
     	       #2 Sean Jago, sjago, 06588557
	       #3 Colm Murphy, comurphy, 06592295

Project Introduction:
        For this project we aim as a team to re-create the commodore 64 game "Thrust"
        using what we will  have learned throughout the module.
       
Project Purpose:
	To teach us how to use the concepts and tools of software engineering 
	we cover in class to successfully create a game.

Project Requirements:
	Become familiar with and use Linux.
	Work as a team to decide on our workplan.
	Use knowledge obtained from lectures to complete assignments.	 
	To successfully run the game Thrust using our own implementations.
	

Summary of analysis & design process to date:
	Concept Analysis - We wrote out a class dictionary and defined the core
	concepts we will be using in our development of the game.
	05/03/08 - We updated our class library.

Project Dictionary:

	*CONCEPT* *DEFINITION*
-----------------------------------
Fuel:Is what powers the ship in the game.
Score:Keeps track of points scored.
Points:Keep track of success in the game.
Sucess:Achieving your goals.
Colour:Each colour is unique.
Lives:Decrease and increase depending on success or lack thereof.
Ship:A yellow, triangular entity, controlled by the player.
Pod:Is a ball shaped object.
Enemy:Tries to harm the ship by shooting at the ship.
Shooting:What the enemy does to take lives from the ship.
Land:Is a sequence of lines and colours.
Lines:Lines are pieces of colour that form the land and other objects in the game.
Space:An area of black.
Area:Area is a defined part of space.
Tractor Beam:A line extended from the ship.				
Entity:A visual object in the game.
Energy:Powers the ship.
Tool:An object the ship/enemies use to help them succeed.
Size:Refers to how much Area an Entity possesses.
Amount:A number that increases and decreases.
Total:The final Amount.
Visual:Something you see.

*IS-A RELATIONS*
----------------
Fuel is a source of Energy.
Score is a series of numbers that increases with Success.  
Colour is an Entity.
Lives is a counter of remaining chances to Suceed. 
Enemy is an Entity.
Ship is an Entity.
Pod is an object the Ship must collect.
Land is a Area that constrains the flight of the Ship.
Space is an Area where the Ship flies.
Tractor Beam is a Line shaped Tool that picks up the Pod.


*HAS-A RELATIONS*
-----------------
Fuel has an Amount.
Score has a Total.
Colour has a unique Visual impact.
Lives has an Amount.
Enemy has a Tool to harm the Ship.
Ship has a Tractor Beam.
Pod has a Line.
Land has an assortment of Colours.
Space has a Colour and Area.
Tractor Beam has a Size.

*IS-A-KIND-OF RELATIONS*
------------------------
Fuel is a kind of string.
Score is a kind of string.
Colour is a kind of effect.
Lives is a kind of string.
Enemy is a kind of Entity.
Ship is a kind of Entity.
Pod is a kind of object.
Land is a kind of platform.
Space is a kind of Area.
Tractor Beam is a kind of Tool.

