Group name: Whack!
Group Members:	David Maguire dmaguire 06024769
			Tara Flood tflood 06361188
	   		Allison Fallon afallon 06584551

	For our project we hope to recreate the Commoder 64 game Thrust. By todays standards Thrust is a relatively basic computer game, which sees the player taking control of a spaceship and attempting to maneuver through a 2D landscape while trying to avoid obstacles. We will be coding this using linux an operating system which uses unix.  By visual analysis alone, i.e. without viewing any code, we hope to identify what the main components of the game are and recreate them.

Requirements:
Linux Operating System – our group is using ubuntu
Access to the online Trac to share and edit files
Programming environment – we are using eclipse
A working copy of the game Thrust
Knowledge of the programming language Java
Internet access
Group contact details

Project Purpose:
	The purpose of the project, from our group's perspective,  is to become more familiar with a new operating system, as none of the members in our group have ever used any other operating system other than Windows. We are also gaining knowledge in a broader range of software outside of Microsoft, for example we are now using Firefox instead “Intercrap Exploder” as well as 
expanding our knowledge by using emacs and vi etc.

Analysis and Design:
We have become familiar with every aspect of the game, we have done this by playing with the game and viewing screenshots of the game.
We have identified all the main concepts of the game.
We identified relationships linking those concepts.
We then used those relationships to group the concepts into clusters.
During this we have been learning about other software on linux that will later aid us in developing the project.

Class Dictionary:

Ball- Round Entity, it is your goal to collect
Bullets - Entity fired from Spaceship and Turrets
Collision - When the Spaceship comes into contact with another Entity
Colour - Visually stimulating effect
Death - Life goes down due to Collision with other Entity
Entity - A visual object in the game
Explosion - Green dots appear when Collision occurs
Factory - Yellow and blue Entity, destroying increases Score
Fuel - A blue box
Fuel Gauge – A String at the top of the screen with an associated Integer that decreases as Spaceship moves and increases while Sucking Fuel. When Integer reaches zero Life decreases
Forcefield - Circle around Spaceship, protects from Bullets
Gravity - Pulls Spaceship towards Landscape
Integer - A number
Landscape - Horizontal lines, Entities
Life - A String at the top of the screen with an associated Integer that decreases after each Death
Momentum - Continue to move forward after releasing forward
Music - Tones played during gameplay
Rod - Connects Spaceship to the Ball
Score - A String at the top of the screen with an associated Integer that increases
Sound - Noise produced by an Entity
Spaceship - Main triangular Entity you control
Stars - Coloured dots above the Landscape
String - Word
Sucking Fuel - Causes Fuel Gauge to increase
Teleporting - Spaceship disappears with Ball in the sky
Tracking - Allows Turrets to lock onto Spaceship
Turrets - Entity, tracks Spaceships movement,fires Bullets